Downstream Revisions Section Reference
Issue	proposed language
Claims	Notwithstanding the foregoing, Provider may pursue a claim directly against Company, but only to the extent the alleged damages are caused solely by Company and no others.
Claims	In the event that Company is compensated by Client by reason of Client's termination or suspension, Company shall pay to Provider an equitable portion of said sum based upon the Work performed, but only to the extent actually received by Company.
Claims	With regard to any change or claim presented to Company which is attributable to the Client or any other third party, Provider shall recover no greater compensation than what Company obtains on Provider's behalf from the relevant third party.
Claims	A claim that will affect or become part of a claim that Company is required to make under the Contract within a specified time period or manner, must be made by Provider in sufficient time to permit Company to satisfy the requirements of the Contract.
Claims	The dispute resolution provisions of the Contract shall apply to this Agreement only to the extent that any dispute between Provider and Company directly implicates the Owner or arises from claims asserted by or against the Owner. For all other disputes between Provider and Company that do not involve the Owner, the dispute resolution provisions of this Agreement shall govern exclusively.
consequential damages	Neither Party shall be liable to the other for any consequential, incidental, indirect, or punitive damages including but not limited to loss of use, lost profits, loss of business opportunity, and loss of business goodwill. The foregoing waiver shall not apply to claims between Company and Provider which arise from the Contract and implicate Company's indemnity obligations to Client. Further, this mutual waiver shall not apply: (a) the extent the Provider is responsible for liquidated damages, (b) Provider's indemnity obligations, (c) Provider's insurance obligations, or (d) claims arising from gross negligence or willful misconduct.
delay	Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Company shall equitably compensate Provider for additional costs incurred as a direct result of any delays to the extent such delays are caused by Company and are not contributed to by the acts or omissions of Provider; provided such costs are reasonable and could not have been avoided by the exercise of diligence on the part of Provider. In the event of such a delay, Provider will use reasonable efforts to mitigate its costs arising out of the delay.
differing site conditions	Subject to Provider's compliance with the requirements of Articles 21.0, 25.0, and the Agreement, Provider shall be entitled to an equitable proportionate share of any compensation Company receives from Client for changed or differing site conditions which impact Provider's performance of the Work, but only to the extent actually received by Company from Client.
force majeure	Subject to compliance with applicable notice requirements, neither Provider nor Company shall be liable to the other for any delay caused by or occasioned by a Force Majeure Event, as that term is defined in the Contract.
indemnity	Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary herein, in no event shall Provider's defense and indemnity obligations to Company be less than Company's obligations to Client.
indemnity	Provider's indemnity obligations hereunder shall be in proportion to the negligence or fault of Provider, including the negligence or fault of those for whom Provider is responsible. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything else to the contrary herein, in no event shall Provider's indemnity obligations to Company be less than Company's obligations to Client.
indemnity	If it is adjudicated that any portion of the claims for which Provider has furnished defense and indemnity are caused by the negligence or fault of Company, Company shall reimburse Provider in an amount proportionate to the Company's adjudicated fault.
indemnity	If the losses, damages, expenses, claims, suits, liabilities, fines, penalties, remedial or costs ("Claims") implicate Company's indemnity obligations under the Contract, Provider's defense and/or indemnity obligations to company shall be equal to Company's indemnity obligations to Client. If the Claims do not implicate Company's defense and/or indemnity obligations under the Contract, then Provider's indemnity obligations to Company shall be in proportion to Provider's fault, including those for whom Provider is responsible or has control.
indemnity	Provider shall be relieved of and shall have no further obligation to indemnify an Indemnified Party upon final resolution of a claim (i.e. a claim from which there is no longer any right of appeal) to the extent such claim is finally determined by a tribunal having jurisdiction to be due to the negligence or willful misconduct of Company or those for whom it is legally responsible.
limitation of liability	Provided that provider maintains the insurance required herein, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL PROVIDER'S TOTAL CUMULATIVE LIABILITY TO COMPANY ARISING UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR CLAIMS COVERED BY PROVIDER'S INSURANCE EXCEED THE AMOUNT RECOVERABLE UNDER PROVIDER'S INSURANCE.
payment	Unless otherwise required by law, Provider shall bear the risk of nonpayment by the Client, as the Client is the source of funding for the Work and payment to Provider shall be wholly contingent upon Company's receipt of payment from Client in the event that Client's failure to make payment to Company (i) is due to the fault of Provider or (ii) is beyond the control of Company including, but not limited to, Client's insolvency.
termination for convenience	Upon such termination for Company's convenience, Provider shall be entitled to payment in accordance with and subject to the requirements of Article 5.0, and payment shall be made to Provider commensurate with the percentage of Work properly completed through the date of termination (but in any event not to exceed one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the direct cost of the Work completed and accepted.
warranty	Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary herein, in no event shall Provider's warranty obligations to Company be less than Company's warranty obligations to Client.
work performed prior to execution	Any Services performed by Provider prior to the Effective Date shall be deemed to have been performed under and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The parties agree that performance of such Services shall not create any separate obligations or rights outside of this Agreement, and all limitations of liability, indemnities, warranties, and other provisions herein shall apply retroactively to such Services.
